Capacityscheduling doc (#243)
kubernetes-sigs/scheduler-plugins: kep/9-capacity-scheduling/README.md

We will watch the event of ElasticQuota and pod. The status of ElasticQuota 
like allocated will store in Cache.

### Additional Preemption Details
Preemption happens when a pod is marked as unschedulable, which is determined by the scheduler.
For example, if the scheduler tries to schedule a pod that will cause the exceed of the sum of the elastic quota min, the pod will be marked as unschedulable, and the preemption process will start.

#### 1. Cross Node Preemption is not supported
Current default Kubernetes scheduler does not support cross node preemption, which means that preemption process only happens in one node. In order to make capacity scheduler compatible with the default scheduler, current implementation also does not support cross node preemption.

> Because of the inability to do cross node preemption, it is possible that the scheduler fails to give the resources back to the original namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of that, it's expected in some cases the scheduler is incapable to give the resources back to the original namespace.
```

Below is a simple example. Suppossed that you have **exactly** 2 nodes in your cluster with the following configuration:
##### Elastic Quota Configuration for namespace 1
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ElasticQuota
metadata:
  name: quota1
  namespace: quota1
spec:
  max:
    cpu: 2
  min:
    cpu: 0
```
##### Elastic Quota Configuration for namespace 2

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: ElasticQuota
metadata:
  name: quota2
  namespace: quota2
spec:
  max:
    cpu: 2
  min:
    cpu: 2
```
##### Run Sample Deployment on namespace 1

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx
  namespace: quota1
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  replicas: 2
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
      schedulerName: capacityscheduler
      containers:
        - name: nginx
          image: nginx
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 1

>             `requests:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            requests:
```

              cpu: 1
```

> Suppossed that after running this deployment on namespace quota1, one replica is on Node 1 and another replica is on Node 2, which is highly the case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose two replicas of the deployment get scheduled to Node 1 and Node 2 respectively.

Next, let's try to run another deployment on namespace 2.
```

##### Run Sample Deployment on namespace 2

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx
  namespace: quota2
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
      schedulerName: capacityscheduler
      containers:
        - name: nginx
          image: nginx
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 2

>             `requests:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            requests:
```

              cpu: 2
```

> Currently, namespace quota1 is overusing its min and borrowing the 2 unused cpu min from namespace quota2. Idealy, the two pods in namespace quota1 should get preempted and the newly deployed pod on namespace quota2 should be scheduled. However because preemption can only happen on one node, preempting one pod in namespace quota1 from only one node and running the newly deployed pod in namespace quota2 on that node will violate one of our rules. It will cause the total used cpu = 3 > 2 (sum of elastic quota min). Thus in this case, the preemption process fails no matter which node is selected for the preemption process.

Reviewer: As you may have noticed, namespace quota1 overused its min quota, and has borrowed 2 cpus from quota2. Now here comes a pod from namespace quota2: ideally, the two pods in namespace quota1 should get preempted and the newly deployed pod on namespace quota2 should be scheduled. However, preemption is restricted to be attempted on one single node, so preempting either pod of namespace quota1 won't satisfy the incoming pod of quota2 - used cpus = 3 > 2 (sum of elastic quota min). Thus in this case, the preemption process fails no matter which node is selected.

> #### 2. First Come First Serve Rule for namespace resources over its elastic quota min

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### ⚠️ Cross-namespace vs. single-namespace preemption
```

> During the postFilter plugin / Preemption, if running current pod will lead to exceed of its current namespace min, the scheduler can only preempt lower priority pods in preemptor pod namespace. However, it cannot preempt other lower priority pods from other namespaces which are overusing their namespace resource min because the scheduler follows first come first serve rule.

Reviewer: Does this read better?

```suggestion
During the preemption, if allowing the current pod leads to excessive usage of its elastic quota's min, the plugin will only try to preempt lower-priority pods within this preemptor pod's namespace. That's to say, it won't preempt the lower-priority pods among other namespaces even if they have overused their elastic quota's min.

This is to adhere to the elastic quota's API semantics:

- wild cross-namespace preemption to guarantee an elastic quota's min resource
- restricted single-namespace preemption if the aggregated usage is larger than min
```

Author: Look much cleaner to me!

Below is a simple example. 
##### Elastic Quota Configuration for namespace 1

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: ElasticQuota
metadata:
  name: quota1
  namespace: quota1
spec:
  max:
    cpu: 2
  min:
    cpu: 0
```
##### Elastic Quota Configuration for namespace 2

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: ElasticQuota
metadata:
  name: quota2
  namespace: quota2
spec:
  max:
    cpu: 2
  min:
    cpu: 0
```
##### Elastic Quota Configuration for namespace 3

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: ElasticQuota
metadata:
  name: quota3
  namespace: quota3
spec:
  max:
    cpu: 2
  min:
    cpu: 1
```

> #### Deployment on Namespace quota1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Deployment on Namespace quota1
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx
  namespace: quota1
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
      schedulerName: capacityscheduler
      containers:
        - name: nginx
          image: nginx
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 1

>             `requests:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            requests:
```

              cpu: 1
```
The nginx pod is able to run because it will borrow the 1 free cpu min from namespace quota3. Note, by default if the PriorityClassName is not configured, the pod will have a priority of 0.

> #### A sample Priority Class Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### A sample Priority Class Deployment
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: scheduling.k8s.io/v1
kind: PriorityClass
metadata:
  name: high-priority
value: 1000000
globalDefault: false
description: "Sample High Priority Class"
```

> #### Deployment on Namespace quota2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Deployment on Namespace quota2
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx
  namespace: quota2
  labels:
    app: nginx
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx
      labels:
        app: nginx
    spec:
      schedulerName: capacityscheduler
      priorityClassName: high-priority
      containers:
        - name: nginx
          image: nginx
          resources:
            limits:
              cpu: 1

>             `requests:`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            requests:
```

              cpu: 1
```

> In this case, the high priority pod in namespace quota2 cannot run even though it has a higher priority compared to the running pod in namespace quota1 because the capacity scheduler follows first come first serve rule for pods overusing their namespace resource min. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the high priority pod in namespace quota2 cannot run even though it has a higher priority compared to the running pod in namespace quota1 because the capacity scheduler follows a restricted "in-namespace" preemption rule - pods within quota2 have overused their namespace resource min. 
```

More specifically, during the PostFilter plugin, the scheduler will first determine if running the current pod will lead to the exceed of the resource min in its current namespace. If it will, the scheduler can **only preempts pods that have lower priority in the same namespace*** but not pods from other namespaces because of the first come first serve rule.

When the high priority pod in namespace quota2 is deployed, since there are no more unused min resources in the elastic quota namespaces, the scheduler will start the preemption process. 

> During the preemption process, since namespace quota2 after running this high priority pod will overuse its namespace resource min, the capacity scheduler can only preempt lower priority pods in the same namespace (namespace quota2). Since currently there is no other pods the scheduler can preempt in namespace quota2, the high priority pod fails to get scheduled.

Reviewer: I think the previous explanation is clear enough, so prefer to remove these stanzas.

We will watch the event of ElasticQuota and pod. The status of ElasticQuota 
like allocated will store in Cache.

### Additional Preemption Details
Preemption happens when a pod is unschedulable, i.e., failed in PreFilter or Filter phases.

In particular for capacity scheduling, the failure reasons could be:
- Prefilter Stage

>   - Pod's namespace allocated resources + pod.request > pod's namespace elastic quota resource max

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - sum(allocated res of pods in the same elasticquota) + pod.request > elasticquota.spec.max
```

>   - Sum of the allocated resources from all elastic quota namespaces + pod.request > than the sum of elastic quota resource min 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - sum(allocated res of pods in the same elasticquota) + pod.request > sum(elasticquota.spec.min)
```

So the preemption logic will attempt to make the pod schedulable, with a cost of preempting other running pods.

#### ⚠️ Cross Node Preemption is not supported
Current default Kubernetes scheduler does not support cross node preemption, which means that preemption process only happens in one node. In order to make capacity scheduler compatible with the default scheduler, current implementation also does not support cross node preemption.

> Because of that, it's expected in some cases the scheduler is incapable to give the resources back to the original namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because of that, it's expected in some cases the scheduler is incapable to give the resources back to the original namespace. This will lead to resource fragmentation. In the production environment, it is recommended to set the sum of min to be less than the total resources of the cluster. This can avoid this problem as much as possible.
```
